This video and the next video looks slightly different from the previous videos because now we are on
the mobile phone because we want to try the Power BI mobile app.
Now the first thing we want to do right here is, we want to install the Power BI mobile app and connect it
to Power BI service,
let's see how this works then.
So here I am
in the Google Play Store,
you can of course also find the app in the Window store or on Apple's App Store.
Now let's first install the app and then start the app together for the first time.
So after I installed the app, I opened the app the first time and this is the first thing I can see,
let's first press skip in the right upper part, right here and now we see some Power BI samples. You could
use that if you don't have any data in your Power BI service account to see what the app can do and
how it can display the visuals.
Now in our case, we have some data in some visualizations,
so the first thing we should do is we should click in the upper left part, right here and then we can
see that we have that connect to account option,
let's do that now.
So I click connect account,
now I want to connect to Power BI of course,
so the first option. Now I have to sign in using my email address, so the
same email address we had in the Power BI service application
and after entering my account data, I am finally in the Power BI app,
I hope the same thing is true for you. Now that
we're good to go,
let's press onto start exploring now
and what we can see in the upper left part is a button. Let's click that button
and now we have an overview of the options that we have in the Power BI app.
The first thing we can see are the notifications,
we won't have a lot at the moment so we don't need that.
We have the favorites and we could click that right because we created a favorite in Power BI service,
so we should have a dashboard there,
let's see how this works
and indeed, we can find our favorite dashboard in here or our favorite dashboards if you would have more
favorites.
We could open that now but I don't want to do that because I first want to show you something else.
So let's click on to the left upper button, the menu button again and now focus on two things, not the
two highlighted things to be honest, only
the apps which is highlighted and the workspaces which we can see below share it with me.
So I first want to show you the apps menu,
let's now click on apps
and here we can find our test-collab app, so the app that we created in our app workspace and then published
to Maximillian and my personal account. If we now click onto the app, we can see two things,
we can see this empty dashboard which was automatically created when we connected Power BI service to
Power BI Desktop with the getData function and we have our dashboard that we created,
so our population dashboard. Now what can we do right now?
Well why don't we simply touch the dashboard now. Let's do this
and as you can see, we now get a single view of our visualizations but if we click onto it now, nothing
changes.
You can try that, so you can click where you want,
you won't see any change. But we have two options in the upper right part of the screen,
let's first hit that pen, now we have a new menu and this menu is called annotate.
Now what you can do right here with that annotate function is that if you look into the lower part of
the screen, that you can select different things that you might want to add to your visualization. At the moment,
we can for example simply, well paint into it like this
or like that.
So as you can see, I'm really creative,
so maybe we should stop that, the important thing is that you can click right here to add text.
Here we have that beautiful painting option that we just saw,
here we can add some smileys, right like this
and here we can erase what we just did.
So this right button undoes the last step,
so our smiley and if we click on the button next to it, then you can clear all annotations, like this. In
case you want to share this beautiful annotations with other people,
you can click the share button in the upper right part of that screen
but the important thing is that sharing here does not mean sharing it in Power BI but sharing it
and this specific visualization by the way,
so without the data, just the visualization to other people, for instance using WhatsApp
but I have to add one important thing.
If you send this picture or if you share this in WhatsApp for instance, then the recipient of course
sees this picture and doesn't see the data
but you also send a link with that picture
and if he accesses this link and has access to the Power BI service, then of course this person has
full access to the dashboard and the underlying report,
so keep that in mind. Now we won't do that right now, so we won't use this annotate function
but we have to keep that in mind, that sharing here does not refer to that classical sharing that we
learned in Power BI.
Now let's go back and yes, we want to leave that, this is fine.
But we have another option in the upper right part,
we have that columns,
well let's click on to them.
So the first thing we can see here is that we now have a horizontal view and the second and more important
thing is that we are now in our report.
So this means we can click into a visualization here if we want to or hit a visualization to be more precise
like this and hit it again to unselect it
and we can of course scroll down and scroll up and we can also see that we have that menu in the lower
part. And we know that pen
already, this is the annotations menu that would open so we could paint into a visualization
and the more important thing here is that symbol right to the annotations because if we hit that, then we
can change the pages.
So if we for instance go to overview, then we have our overview visualization right here and we can also hit
the slicer of course and select the different data that we have.
So this is really interactive and has actually the same functionalities that we had in the service application.
So this is what we can do in our app, so we can access the dashboards and we can also access the reports
and we can share these annotations.
This is nice,
let's now see what else we can do in the Power BI mobile app.
So let's scroll up and go back, go back again,
now I will turn the screen again for you so that you can see it in a vertical perspective, like this
and go back once more
and now again open the menu and now that we understand how the apps work,
it might maybe make sense to also take a look at the workspaces and we can see that we have our both
workspaces, so our personal workspace and the app workspace.
Now we kind of know about the app workspace looks like, so we could now take a look at our workspace.
Let's hit that
and this looks different right because now we can immediately change between the dashboards and the
corresponding reports.
So here we can see our four dashboards,
so our project population dashboard, the content pack that we added to our dashboard,
so this being Power BI search term and the tool test dashboards.
And if we go to reports then, then we can see the underlying reports that we have.
Well let's start with the dashboards and go to the left
and here we can again select our project population dashboard, like
this and we see that we again have our empty visualization that was automatically created and we have our population
visualization,
so this treemap. But one thing changed,
if you look at the upper part, you can find that new symbol with that person and that plus.
So if we click that, then we can share this information
but sharing this time is not sharing it in WhatsApp for instance but sharing it in Power BI.
So if you click onto an email address, then you can see what you can do.
You can add an email address, you can add a description,
you can define if the recipients are allowed to additionally share this dashboard with other people
and you see this warning down here, that the recipients will have access to the same data and reports
as you have in this dashboard.
However, we don't want to do this right now,
so we can go back by clicking onto the x and clicking that again and now we could again select our treemap
there
and now we see that we have the same options that we had in the app
actually. We can add annotations again and if we click into the upper right part, then we see our
report.
So this is what we know already,
so I will now go back and go back again
and one last time and now take a look at the reports up here.
Let's also see how this works,
so if I click onto reports and open our project population report, then this is the same thing.
So this is what you have to know,
you can either directly access the report by selecting a report or you can start with the dashboard
and also share that dashboard with other users.
So let's go back and once again,
so this is it.
We now took a look at the Power BI mobile app and what did we learn?
We can connect the Power BI mobile app to Power BI service and access our workspaces and apps.
Additionally we saw a feature named annotate where we could add comments to our visualizations and
also share these visualizations with other people not using Power BI
but we kept in mind that with the sharing of this visualization as an image,
we also sent a link to Power BI service
meaning that if this person has access to Power BI service and our data, then it can also see the underlying
data of that visualization,
so the whole dashboard or the report.
Additionally, we saw that we have our classical workspaces, so we could use our personal workspace or
the app workspace and have a look at the dashboards and the reports.
Additionally we could use the classical Power BI sharing features in that area,
so in that workspaces section. And with that, it's now finally time to summarize what we learned in that
module,
let's do this in the next video.